Hi everybody and welcome back.
In a previous lecture we had a program working out our birthday month.
Let's revisit that now.
Only this time let's use dictionaries to do it.
So let's create a dictionary.
Very thing months equals.
I'm going to make this Lebert easier to read by separating out a key value pairs on the individual lines.
So Tony and that's given it the value November I should say give me the value of November.
It doesn't sound very good.
Make and aligned with a comma and then a new line.
Let's go Pat let's give him June
comma and their line and then let's go Mary quote Don't forget the single quotes Tony.
Mary and let's give her May.
So there we go.
And again you can close this line here with a comma.
So this dictionary is now broken out over several lines which I think makes it easier to read.
Just remember to end your lines with a comma.
So just for clarity and just make sure everything works let's print this out.
Print birthday months.
There we go.
Tony November marry May June.
Each case a person's name and each value is separate a month.
So let's now see how we can loop through this dictionary.
So as we discussed before your pardon programs can be used to store not just a few pieces of information
but thousands and millions.
When your dictionary start to reach a certain size you're going to want the ability to loop through
them.
You have the ability to look to your dictionaries in several ways you can loop true key value pairs
you can loop through its keys or you can loop through its values.
Let's start looping through key value Paris.
Now let's create a new dictionary.
Let's first get this a comet looping through
key value pairs so we know what this one is doing.
Now a new dictionary is called Book one that's called name
Elon Musk.
I've used this book before.
So you think I only have the one book but I have a few but I just happen to like this book and it's
on my desk as we are talking right now.
Orser is Ashley SAGAL The Vance VAMC comment.
Don't forget your comma at the end of your line.
Price
one four point nine nine and we don't need to surround that in quotes and publisher and don't forget
your quote here because we do need to surround it in quotes Virgin Books
OK.
There we go.
Let's just print this out make sure it's working.
Print the O book one.
There we go.
Publisher of Virgin Books.
Name and Address.
Now do we have a dictionary created.
Let's create a for loop and in a for loop we create the names of two variables that will hold the key
and the value.
So we have four and then the names of the two variables key and value add these two variables will hold
the key and the value in each key value pair.
We can choose any names you want for these two variables.
Our program will run just as well as we call them.
X and y so key and value in book 1 that items
and color print and apprentice on a new line
backslash and key plus key.
So all this should look very familiar.
Print value
plus value
OK now and as part of a statement we include the name of the dictionary followed by the method item
This returns a list of key value pairs.
The for loop then stores.
Each of these pairs into two variables provided we don't use the variables to print each key followed
by its value.
So let's see how this looks.
And there we go.
Very nice.
Nice and clean.
So publisher Vergine book's author Ashley Vance name Elon Musk and then the price when we run this program.
You'll notice that the key value pairs are not returned in the order in which they start in which they
were stored.
This is because it doesn't care about the order in which key value pairs are stored.
Looping through all key value pairs works particularly well for dictionaries.
Like our birthday months which stores the same kind of information for many different keys.
If we look to the month's dictionary we get the name of each person in the dictionary on their birthday
months.
So let's do that now let's get at this let's remove the print birthday months line and let's go for
key value.
And as we set these variables can be anything but we leave them as they are.
In birthday month items print now more we're going to do here is we're just going to change just fractionally.
So we're going to say in print and again we're going to give it a new line.
So we're going to say print them we're going to say name
ke I'll go print it again.
I'm going to say money
jumped the line there by mistake.
I'm going to say plus value.
Now let's run this and see what we get.
There we go.
Past June Tony November.
Mary.
Very nice.
So as you can see they're looping through a dictionary.
It's very simple and the open format is very nice and very clean.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.